MICHAEL VOG T DATA TECHNICAL LEAD d
Chicago , IL | 312.772.4762  | mvogt99@gmail.com  | LinkedIn/ mike -vogt -anal ytics




Data Platforms & Engineering | Advanced Analytics | Data Architecture & Management


Accomplished executive overseeing  data modernization efforts  and platform architecture for domestic and global organizations , supporting corporate
transformation . Consistent history of directing the design, development, and implementation of innovative solutions to meet unique , dynamic
objectives . Track record of creating  top-performing teams, building consensus, and managing application  and data development life cycles. Expertise
in the design  and delivery of data platforms to catalyze  insights -driven decision -making.

Industry experience : healthcare, finance, technology,  logistics, manufacturing, transportation, and professional services.

AREAS OF EXPERTISE
Leadership & Management  Data Strategy & Advisory   Cloud Data Platforms  Advanced Analytics
Data Architecture  Data Governance  Data Engineering  Data Virtualization
Artificial Intelligence (AI)  Machine Learning (ML)  Data -Driven Decision -Making  Cross -Functional Collaboration

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) |  Chicago, IL  2020 – 2023

DIRECTOR
Overs aw Data as a Product , guid ing clients to monetize data assets on cloud -native data platform. Guided the design and architecture of complex
solutions to meet client needs , including data governance, data architecture, enterprise data platform modernization, and DataOps. Drove pursuits
through delivery of data and analytics client projects.

KEY ACCOMP LISHMENTS:
• Client Focus . Directed  team of 50 and oversaw $5M budget,  driving design, engineering, and overall delivery of enterprise cloud -native
(Azure/GCP) data platforms, including operating model design and activation for multiple clients, from data ingestion through  consumption
(including BI and predictive analytics).
• Data P latforms & Engineering . Led initiative to incorporate accelerators on Azure, AWS , and GCP with  pre-built mappings from ERP (SAP
and Oracle), CRM (Salesforce and SAP) , and third -party (IRI) into source -agnostic canonical models  for implementation teams  to leverage  reusable
Analytics assets and meet client needs .
• Team Leadership.  Managed and coached 10-member team of project managers, senior architects, engineers, and analysts (on and off -shore)
in large matrixed firm to support delivery of multiple project s.
• Data Modernization.  Collaborated with leaders across enterprise and s erved as Architecture/Engineering SME for data modernization
capability (cloud native data platforms)  for multiple engagements.

SPR Consulting |  Chicago, IL  2018 – 2020

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, DATA, ANALYTICS & MACHINE LEARNING
Led p ractice  to sell and deliver analytics, business intelligence (BI), AI, data platform (Azure and AWS), data engineering, and data managem ent service
offerings. Supervised team of full-time  and contract consultants, selling and delivering several multi -million dollars engagements.  Oversaw  HR, P&L, and
client satisfaction.
• Drove effort to t urnaround the Data, Analytics, and M L practice , increasing  profitability by 40% and capacity by 300% in less than 1 year , increasing
revenue by $4.5M  by introducing modern technologies and service offerings.
• Tripled size of the practice headcount to keep pace with rapid business growth , expanding  team  of architects, engineers, and analysts to support
pre-sales and client project delivery.
• Grew service offering portfolio  by 400%, emphasizing  cloud, AI, and ML solutions , and improved revenue stream predictability by 40% through
develop ment of  long -term p ipeline.
• Provided advisory services to client executives, including data strategy, analytics maturity, and data platform (people, proc ess & technology
components) roadmaps .
• Lowered costs by 40% for clients by creating cloud -based Data Platform accelerator based on a cloud -native , metadata -driven solution
modernization,  driving  faster outcomes aligned with clients’ analytics use cases .  Accelerator included metadata tagging and search, ingestion of
1st, 2nd, and 3rd party data sets and blending of complex, disparate data  into a unified consumption layer to solve for a variety of use cases .


MICHAEL VOGT  | 312.772.4762  | PAGE 2




 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE CONT.
NVISIA |  Chicago, IL  2012 – 2017

DIRECTOR, DATA MANAGEMENT (2015 to 2017) ; DIRECTOR (201 2 to 201 5)
Led pursuit activities , including contract creation.  Led teams of project managers, business analysts, consultants, and architects  on delivery of custom
application development and integration projects.
• Reduced engagement costs by 15% through  introduc tion of  use of reusable assets  and accelerators .
• Increased annual revenue $1.5M through effective service delivery and addition of new capabilities.

Promoted to create a new  Data  Analytics  Practice , including definition of  practice strategy and catalog of Data Architecture, Engineering, and
Management  services . The c atalog included maturation of Enterprise Data Management  and cloud -native  Data Architecture & Engineering , with a focus
on healthcare , financial services and manufacturing  analytics . Led and contribut ed on sales pursuits, marketing,  and operations , including  P&L
accountability .
• Established the Data  Analytics practice , growing practice from zero to $3M, with 40% profit margin.
• Increased sales and visibility by partnering with Marketing and Business Development on messaging , develop ing all marketing and sales collateral
and strategies.
• Established  first Enterprise Data Management capability at major benefits management company.
• Led design and delivery of risk assessment engine for healthcare payor’s underwriting unit.

PSC Group |  Schaumburg, IL  2005 – 2012

VICE PRESIDENT
Established Open -source Application Development practice, including pursuits, contract creation/ delivery, partner relationship management , and
marketing material.  Grew team of architects  and engineers, including mentoring and career management.
• Launched  Open -source Application Development practice area , growing revenue  from zero to $2M and exceed ing margin targets by 5% within
first year of operation with little investment budget.
• Partne red with Oracle to obtain exclusive SOA middle -ware specialization that contributed 10% to practices revenue .
• Directed 4 -year project to create and manage enterprise data management capability at global Futures Clearing Merchant, with responsibility for
all logical and physical data modeling for global ODS and data warehouse and event -driven integration platform that fed them.
• Advised global data services group and developed all customer -facing and backend applications necessary for bus iness operations in Americas,
EMEA, and APAC regions .

PREVIOUS  EXPERIENCE
Health Care Services Corp (HCSC) | Senior Technical Architect
Kemper Insurance | Senior Rules Engine Architect
US Navy Reserve | Merchant Marine Engineering Officer

CERTIFICATIONS  & PROFESSIONAL TRAINING
Essentials of Executive Leadership  | Booth School of Management, University of Chicago

CAPABILITIES
Advisory:  Data Strategy Roadmap, Analytics Maturity Roadmap, Data Platform (people, process & technology components) Architectural &
Implementation Roadmap

Technology : Enterprise architecture, data architecture, integration architecture, master data management, business process management, ru les
engines  design/implementation , capacity/contingency planning, service/capability rationalization

EDUCATION
Master of Engineering (ME),  Concurrent Design Management  | Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, NJ
Bachelor of Science ( BS), Marine Engineering Systems  | United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY
