Mike Vogt
Data Team Lead | Analytics Architect | Passionate Innovator | Data Platforms Strategist | Grower of Teams

Summary
I’m passionate about bringing data to life for clients. That includes blending multiple data sets together to unlock the analytics that are hidden across silos.  I do this through by listening to clients with a steadfast curiosity, uncovering their needs, and exploring the problems they're trying to solve from an analytics perspective. Throughout my career, I've created close partnerships with client architecture and engineering teams to ensure that whatever solutions I've put in place are sustainable.  My approach leverages technology to build out the analytics story, through cloud-native tools and the data that is already available have, plus blending third-party data sources. Essentially, I work with clients to curate an integrated data set that will answer strategic questions.  It’s all about combining data architecture, platform architecture, data engineering, and data governance to align stakeholder goals, produce quality data analytics, and further the organization’s transformational goals.  AREAS OF EXPERTISE Leadership & Management | Data Strategy & Advisory | Cloud Data Platforms | Advanced Analytics | Data Architecture | Data Governance | Data Engineering | Data Virtualization | Artificial Intelligence (AI) | Machine Learning (ML) | Data-Driven Decision-Making | Cross-Functional Collaboration  ADVISORY ACCUMEN Data Strategy Roadmap | Analytics Maturity Roadmap | Cloud Data Platform (People, Process & Technology) | Architectural & Implementation Roadmap  TECHNOLOGY EXPERTISE Enterprise architecture | Data Architecture | Integration Architecture | Master Data Management | Business Process Management | Rules Engines Design/Implementation | Capacity/Contingency Planning | Service/Capability Rationalization

Experience
Principal Technical Consultant at AHEAD ()
Director, Advisory at PwC (Apr 2020 - Jun 2023)
Oversaw Data as a Product, guiding clients to monetize data assets on cloud-native data platform. Guided the design and architecture of complex solutions to meet client needs, including data governance, data architecture, enterprise data platform modernization, and DataOps.   KEY ACCOMPLISHMENTS: •	Directed team of 50 and oversaw $5M budget, driving design, engineering, and overall delivery of enterprise cloud-native (Azure/GCP) data platforms, including operating model design and activation for multiple clients, from data ingestion through consumption (including BI and predictive analytics).   •	Led initiative to incorporate accelerators on Azure, AWS, and GCP with pre-built mappings from ERP (SAP and Oracle), CRM (Salesforce and SAP), and third-party (IRI) into source-agnostic canonical models for implementation teams to leverage reusable Analytics assets and meet client needs.
Executive Director - Data, Analytics and Machine Learning at SPR (Jan 2018 - Apr 2020)
Led practice to sell and deliver analytics, business intelligence (BI), AI, data platform (Azure and AWS), data engineering, and data management service offerings. Supervised team of full-time and contract consultants, selling and delivering several multi-million dollars engagements.  •	Drove effort to turnaround the Data, Analytics, and ML practice, increasing profitability by 40% and capacity by 300% in less than 1 year, increasing revenue by $4.5M by introducing modern technologies and service offerings. •	Grew service offering portfolio by 400%, emphasizing cloud, AI, and ML solutions, and improved revenue stream predictability by 40% through development of long-term pipeline. •	Provided advisory services to client executives, including data strategy, analytics maturity, and data platform (people, process & technology components) roadmaps.
Director, Data Management at NVISIA (Apr 2012 - Dec 2017)
Led pursuit activities, including contract creation.  Led teams of project managers, business analysts, consultants, and architects on delivery of custom application development and integration projects. •	Reduced engagement costs by 15% through introduction of use of reusable assets and accelerators. •	Increased annual revenue $1.5M through effective service delivery and addition of new capabilities.  Promoted to create a new Data Analytics Practice, including definition of practice strategy and catalog of Data Architecture, Engineering, and Management services.  • Established the Data Analytics practice, growing practice from zero to $3M, with 40% profit margin. • Established first Enterprise Data Management capability at major benefits management company. • Led design and delivery of risk assessment engine for healthcare payor’s underwriting unit.
Vice President at PSC Group (Apr 2005 - Apr 2012)
Established Open-source Application Development practice, including pursuits, contract creation/delivery, partner relationship management, and marketing material.  Grew team of architects and engineers, including mentoring and career management. •	Launched  Open-source Application Development practice area, growing revenue from zero to $2M and exceeding margin targets by 5% within first year of operation with little investment budget. •	Directed 4-year project to create and manage enterprise data management capability at global Futures Clearing Merchant, with responsibility for all logical and physical data modeling for global ODS and data warehouse and event-driven integration platform that fed them.

Education
Master of Engineering - MEng — Stevens Institute of Technology
Bachelor of Science - BS — United States Merchant Marine Academy

Skills
Enterprise Architecture, Integration, Strategy, SOA, Software Development, Business Intelligence, SDLC, Databases, Agile Project Management, Enterprise Software, Business Analysis, SQL, Agile Methodologies, Java, Java Enterprise Edition, Architecture, Solution Architecture, IT Strategy, Oracle, Software Project Management, Application Architecture, Linux, Data Warehousing, Requirements Analysis, Architectures, CRM, Websphere, XML, Business Process Improvement, Cloud Computing
